---
id: accounts
title: Accounts
---

<ins>Creating customers and users</ins> for your fleet management system can be 
done in the **Accounts** section. Here you can access and manage your account. 
Upon opening the Accounts tab, you will see the account you are currently under, 
along with the associated email. 

In the Customers subsection, click on **Create** to add a new nested customer. 
Start by entering the company name, main work email, and country. For the Cloud 
settings, choose a time zone, time format, and units you wish to see the data in.
Click **Create** to save the changes. A small pop-up will confirm the successful 
account creation. 

You can add users associated by going to the **Users** section and choose 
**Create**. Add user details, such as their email and username. You can choose 
to send them a welcome email with a password and setup instructions. You may also
fill out additional information like their full name, phone number, or address, 
but this is not required. Required fields are marked with a red mark.

![Create new user](/img/cloud/accounts/create_new_user.png)

A necessary step is to choose a **Group** here to assign specific permission that
determines the userâ€™s level of access. Clicking on it will show different 
permission options and a short description. We recommend choosing these 
permissions for your users to see vehicle data.

**Fleet Management**: For users who require access to fleet-related data. 
**Account Administrator**: To manage the currently assigned customer. 
**Full Device Access**: To see all the vehicles/devices. 

You can choose multiple options. You can also assign users to **Locations** if 
you have created any (learn more about Locations here). To save the edits, click
**Create**. A notification table in the right corner will confirm the successful 
user creation. You can now find the user in the list with their e-mail address, 
username, assigned customer, location, last login, permissions group, active 
status either with green check mark or red cross. You can delete the user with 
the last bin icon.  

Next to Users you can find your **Devices**. All the devices associated to your 
account can be seen here and you can also register a new device.   

